Restructure Constraints section (#1041)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/constraints/managing-constraints.adoc

* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-property-existence-constraints[Property existence constraints] label:enterprise-edition[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-property-type-constraints[Property type constraints] label:enterprise-edition[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-key-constraints[Key constraints] label:enterprise-edition[]

[[create-constraint]]
== CREATE CONSTRAINT

Constraints are created with the `CREATE CONSTRAINT` command.
When creating a constraint, it is recommended to provide a constraint name.
This name must be unique among both indexes and constraints.
If a name is not explicitly given, a unique name will be auto-generated.

[NOTE]
Creating a constraint requires the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/{page-version}/authentication-authorization/database-administration/#access-control-database-administration-constraints[`CREATE CONSTRAINT` privilege].

[NOTE]
Adding constraints is an atomic operation that can take a while -- all existing data has to be scanned before a Neo4j DBMS can use a constraint.

[[create-property-uniqueness-constraints]]
=== Create property uniqueness constraints

> Property uniqueness constraints ensure that the combined property values are unique for all nodes with a specific label or all relationships with a specific type.
> For composite property uniqueness constraints on multiple properties, the combination of property values must be unique.

Reviewer: Feels odd to say both `combined property value` and then add that for composite ones it's the combination...
```suggestion
Property uniqueness constraints ensure that the property values are unique for all nodes with a specific label or all relationships with a specific type.
For composite property uniqueness constraints on multiple properties, it is the combination of property values must be unique.
```

Property uniqueness constraints do not require all nodes or relationships to have values for the properties listed in the constraint.
Only nodes or relationships that contain all properties specified in the constraint are subject to the uniqueness rule.

> Nodes or relationships missing one or more of the specified properties are not subject to this rule.

Reviewer: should this also have information around which queries would fail?
```suggestion
Nodes or relationships missing one or more of the specified properties are not subject to this rule.
Queries that try to add duplicated property values will fail.
```

* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-single-property-uniqueness-constraint[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-composite-property-uniqueness-constraint[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-property-uniqueness-constraint-compliant-data[]

[[create-single-property-uniqueness-constraint]]
==== Create a single property uniqueness constraint

Single property uniqueness constraints are created with the following commands:

* Node property uniqueness constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE n.property IS UNIQUE`.

> * Relationship property uniqueness constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name

Reviewer: not sure where exactly this fit it but we lost the label of when relationship property uniqueness constraints were introduced. I don't know if we want to add it on these list items for both single and composite (and the examples) or if we just add a sentence about it in the general section.

(added in 5.7)

Reviewer: have not yet checked if this applies to the relationship key constraints as well but it might

Reviewer: at least the relationship key examples looks like it has one but i don't think it's covered in the general section/list items 🤷

Author: Have added labels.

FOR ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-() REQUIRE r.property IS UNIQUE`.

> For the full command syntax to create a uniqueness constraint, see xref:constraints/syntax.adoc#create-property-uniqueness-constraints[Syntax -> Create property uniqueness constraints].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the full command syntax to create a property uniqueness constraint, see xref:constraints/syntax.adoc#create-property-uniqueness-constraints[Syntax -> Create property uniqueness constraints].
```

.Create a node property uniqueness constraint on a single property
======

.Create a constraint requiring `Book` nodes to have unique `isbn` properties
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT book_isbn
FOR (book:Book) REQUIRE book.isbn IS UNIQUE
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

[NOTE]
====
The detailed statistics view currently says `Unique constraints added: 1`.

> It will be updated to say `Node property uniqueness constraints added: 1` in Neo4j 6.0.

Reviewer: I do believe we still want to update these values, but we won't have a Neo4j 6.0 release anymore so I think this sentence needs to be updated somehow.

The aim is to update them in the next version after 5.LTS as it's not something that will be dependent on Cypher 5 vs 25, but is still breaking so it seems like the best place to do it.

Reviewer: this of course applies to all mentions of Neo4j 6.0 on this page, not just this one (I'll just not add comments on all of them)

Author: Note: we have decided on "future version of Neo4j" for the time being.

====

======

.Create a relationship property uniqueness constraint on a single property
======

> A relationship property uniqueness constraint ensures that certain relationships have a set of specified properties whose combined value is unique when all properties exist on the relationship.

Reviewer: this sentence feels out of place here, compared to there not being such a thing for the node example (and it's odd to say "combined value" and "all properties" when there is only one property as well)

.Create a constraint requiring `SEQUEL_OF` relationships to have unique `order` properties
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT sequels
FOR ()-[sequel:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE sequel.order IS UNIQUE
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

[NOTE]
====
The detailed statistics view currently says `Relationship uniqueness constraints added: 1`.
It will be updated to say `Relationship property uniqueness constraints added: 1` in Neo4j 6.0.
====

======

[[create-composite-property-uniqueness-constraint]]
==== Create a composite property uniqueness constraint

Constraints created for multiple properties are called composite constraints.

> Note that the constrained properties must be bracketed when creating composite uniqueness constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the constrained properties must be bracketed when creating composite property uniqueness constraints.
```

> * Node property uniqueness constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE (n.propertyName_1, ..., n.propertyName_n) IS UNIQUE`.

Reviewer: the composite node property uniqueness constraints were introduced in 4.4, I assume we don't need a label for that

Reviewer: there are also some things that was updated/added in 5.0, which I also assume need no labels (but I just realized I didn't put comments on them when reading through the comments I did make)

Author: No, only labels for things introduced in 5.1 and after.

* Relationship property uniqueness constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name
FOR ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-() REQUIRE (r.propertyName_1, ..., r.propertyName_n) IS UNIQUE`.

> For the full command syntax to create a uniqueness constraint, see xref:constraints/syntax.adoc#create-property-uniqueness-constraints[Syntax -> Create property uniqueness constraints].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the full command syntax to create a property uniqueness constraint, see xref:constraints/syntax.adoc#create-property-uniqueness-constraints[Syntax -> Create property uniqueness constraints].
```

.Create a composite node property uniqueness constraint on several properties
======

> .Create a constraint requiring `Book` nodes to have unique `title` and `publicationYear` properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Create a constraint requiring `Book` nodes to have unique combinations of `title` and `publicationYear` properties
```
maybe? to not look like it implies that both are (individually) unique

[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT book_title_year
FOR (book:Book) REQUIRE (book.title, book.publicationYear) IS UNIQUE
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

.Create a composite relationship property uniqueness constraint on several properties
======

> .Create a constraint requiring `PREQUEL_OF` relationships to have unique `order` and `author` properties

Reviewer: same here
```suggestion
.Create a constraint requiring `PREQUEL_OF` relationships to have unique combinations of `order` and `author` properties
```

[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT prequels
FOR ()-[prequel:PREQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE (prequel.order, prequel.author) IS UNIQUE
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

[[create-property-uniqueness-constraint-compliant-data]]
==== Create data that complies with existing property uniqueness constraints

.Create a node that complies with existing property uniqueness constraints
======

.Create a `Book` node with an `isbn` that is not already in the graph
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE (book:Book {isbn: '1449356265', title: 'Graph Databases'})
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 label, created 1 node, set 2 properties
----

======

.Create a relationship that complies with existing property uniqueness constraints
======

> .Create a `SEQUEL_OF` relationship with an `order` property not already in the graph

Reviewer: the node version says ```... with an `isbn` that is not already in the graph``` while the relationship one say ```... an `order` property not already in the graph```, do we want to update that to be consistent?

Author: Yes, and I think we should use the latter (i.e. mentioning "property").

[source, cypher]
----
CREATE (:Book {title: 'Spirit Walker'})-[:SEQUEL_OF {order: 1, seriesTitle: 'Chronicles of Ancient Darkness'}]->(:Book {title: 'Wolf Brother'})
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 2 labels, created 2 nodes, set 4 properties, created 1 relationship.
----

======

[role=label--enterprise-edition]
[[create-property-existence-constraints]]
=== Create property existence constraints

Property existence constraints ensure that a property exists either for all nodes with a specific label or for all relationships with a specific type.
Queries that try to create new nodes of the specified label, or relationships of the specified type, without the constrained property will fail.
The same is true for queries that try to remove the mandatory property.

> * xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-single-property-existence-constraint[]

Reviewer: Do we want to have a sentence about these not allowing composite versions? Or is it enough to just not mention it and only have the single property section?

* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-property-existence-constraint-compliant-data[]

[[create-single-property-existence-constraint]]
==== Create a single property existence constraint

Property existence constraints on single properties are created with the following commands:

* Node property existence constraint: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE (n.property) IS NOT NULL`.
* Relationship property existence constraint: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name

> FOR ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-() REQUIRE r.property IS NOT NULL`.

Reviewer: is it on purpose that the node version have `(n.property)` and the relationship version only `r.property`? (and why is the relationship one split on 2 lines?)

Author: Yes - n for node properties and r for relationship properties was on purpose.
Splitting over 2 lines not on purpose.

Reviewer: not the `n` and `r`, the `()` around the property

For the full command syntax to create an existence constraint, see xref:constraints/syntax.adoc#create-property-existence-constraints[Syntax -> Create property existence constraints].

[NOTE]

> It is not possible to create composite existence constraints on several properties.

Reviewer: Ah, found it :P

.Create a node property existence constraint
======

> A node property existence constraint ensures that certain nodes have a specified property.

Reviewer: both of these examples have this kind of sentence, (most of) the property uniqueness examples doesn't, do we want to be consistent around this?

.Create a node that complies with existing node property existence constraints
======

.Create an `Author` node with a `name` property:
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE (author:Author {name:'Virginia Woolf', surname: 'Woolf'})
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 label, created 1 node, set 2 properties
----

======

.Create a relationship that complies with existing relationship property existence constraints
======

.Create a `WROTE` relationship with a `year` location
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE (author:Author {name: 'Emily Brontë', surname: 'Brontë'})-[wrote:WROTE {year: 1847, location: 'Haworth, United Kingdom', published: true}]->(book:Book {title:'Wuthering Heights', isbn: 9789186579296})
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 2 labels, created 2 nodes, set 7 properties, created 1 relationship
----

======

[role=label--enterprise-edition label--new-5.9]
[[create-property-type-constraints]]
=== Create property type constraints

Property type constraints ensure that a property has the required data type for all nodes with a specific label or for all relationships with a specific type.

> Queries that attempt to add or modify this property for nodes of the specified label or relationships of the specified type by changing its data type will fail.

Reviewer: this sentence reads a bit odd to me, if we 'remove' the 'or modify' bit I feel like the sentence is still supposed to make sense but I'm not sure having `add ... by changing its data type` works 🤔 
```
Queries that attempt to add this property for nodes of the specified label or relationships of the specified type by changing its data type will fail.
```

maybe instead have something along the lines of
```suggestion
Queries that attempt to add this property with the wrong data type or modify this property in a way that changes its data type for nodes of the specified label or relationships of the specified type will fail.
```

Type constraints do not require all nodes or relationships to have the property.
Nodes or relationships without the constrained property are not subject to this rule.

* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-single-property-type-constraint[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-property-type-constraint-union-type[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#type-constraints-allowed-properties[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-property-type-constraint-compliant-data[]

[[create-single-property-type-constraint]]
==== Create a single property type constraint

Property type constraints are created with the following commands:

* Node property type constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name
FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE n.property1 IS <TYPE[| TYPE | ...]>`.
* Relationship property type constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name

> FOR ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-() REQUIRE r.property IS <TYPE[| TYPE | ...]>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Node property type constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name
FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE n.property IS :: <TYPE>`.
* Relationship property type constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name
FOR ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-() REQUIRE r.property IS :: <TYPE>`.
```
feels odd to me that we specify the union types explicitly like this when it's just part of what TYPE is allowed...

(also you missed the `::` so your syntax was invalid, we allow three versions (`IS ::` (preferred), `::`, `IS TYPED`) and you picked a fourth (`IS`) XD)

> For the full command syntax to create a property type constraint, see xref:constraints/syntax.adoc#create-property-type-constraints[Syntax -> Create property type constraints].

Reviewer: do we also want to add a sentence here about what TYPE is and to link down to the allowed types section?

[NOTE]
It is not possible to create composite property type constraints on several properties.

.Create a node property type constraint
======

> A node property existence constraint ensures that certain nodes have a specified property.

Reviewer: same here as for the existence case, the uniqueness one don't have such sentences on most of it's examples. And if we want to have them we should make sure they are there for all of them.

Reviewer: additionally, if we want to keep it it might need to be updated to not be the existence constraint text but actually talk about property type constraints XD

Reviewer: this goes for both the node and relationship version...

[[create-property-type-constraint-compliant-data]]
==== Create data that complies with existing property type constraints

.Create a node that complies with existing node property type constraint
======

.Create an `Movie` node with a `STRING` `title` property
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE (movie:Movie {title:'Iron Man'})
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 label, created 1 node, set 1 properties
----

======

.Create a relationship that complies with existing relationship property type constraint
======

////
[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
CREATE (franchise:Franchise {name:'MCU'})
----
////

.Create a `PART_OF` relationship with an `INTEGER` `order` property
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie {title:'Iron Man'}), (franchise:Franchise {name:'MCU'})
CREATE (movie)-[part:PART_OF {order: 3}]->(franchise)
----

.Result
[queryresult]
----
Set 1 property, created 1 relationship
----

======

[role=label--enterprise-edition]
[[create-key-constraints]]
=== Create key constraints

> Key constraints ensure that property values are unique and exists for all nodes with a specific label or all relationships with a specific type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Key constraints ensure that property values are unique and exists for all nodes with a specific label or all relationships with a specific type.
```

> Key constraints ensure that property values are unique and exists for all nodes with a specific label or all relationships with a specific type

Reviewer: it feels like this is missing some of the extra information that the uniqueness and existence constraint has.
```suggestion
Key constraints ensure that property values are unique and exists for all nodes with a specific label or all relationships with a specific type.
For composite property uniqueness constraints on multiple properties, it is the combination of property values must be unique.
Queries that try to create new nodes of the specified label, or relationships of the specified type, without the constrained property will fail.
The same is true for queries that try to remove the mandatory property or add duplicated property values.
```

* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-single-property-key-constraint[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-composite-key-constraint[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-key-constraint-compliant-data[]

[[create-single-property-key-constraint]]
==== Create a single property key constraint

Single property key constraints are created with the following commands:

* Node property key constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name
FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE n.propertyIS NODE KEY`.
* Relationship property key constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name

> FOR ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-() REQUIRE r.property IS RELATIONSHIP KEY`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Node key constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE n.property IS NODE KEY`.
* Relationship key constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-() REQUIRE r.property IS RELATIONSHIP KEY`.
```
no "property" here, and why is the query on two lines?

For the full command syntax to create a key constraint, see xref:constraints/syntax.adoc#create-key-constraints[Syntax -> Create key constraints].

.Create a node key constraint on a single property
======

> A node key constraint ensures that certain nodes have a set of specified properties whose combined value is unique and all properties in the set are present.

Reviewer: more of these comments, this one also sounds like its more composite than single property related so would need updating if kept

.Create a constraint requiring `Director` nodes to have a unique `imdbId` property as a node key.
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT director_imdbId
FOR (director:Director) REQUIRE (director.imdbId) IS NODE KEY
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

.Create a relationship key constraint on a single property label:new[Introduced in 5.7]
======

A relationship key constraint ensures that certain relationships have a set of defined properties whose combined value is unique.
It also ensures that all properties in the set are present.

.Create a constraint requiring `OWNS` relationships to have a unique `ownershipId` property as a relationship key
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT ownershipId
FOR ()-[owns:OWNS]-() REQUIRE owns.ownershipId IS RELATIONSHIP KEY
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

[[create-composite-key-constraint]]

> ==== Create a composite key constraint

Reviewer: feels a bit odd to have `single property key constraint` and then `composite key constraint`, when compared to uniqueness having `single property uniqueness constraint` and `composite property uniqueness constraint`

I guess it has to do with it being:
* "single property" key constraints and "composite" key constraints
* composite "property uniqueness" constraint
* in which case it probably should be "single property property uniqueness" constraint which sounds dumb XD

not sure what to do with it if anything, just found it looked odd 🤷

Reviewer: Decision: lets keep it as it is

Constraints created for multiple properties are called composite constraints.

> Note that the constrained properties must be bracketed when creating composite key constraints.

Reviewer: is `bracketed` the correct word? I guess you bracket it with parenthesises?

(I assume if we want to change it that it also applies to the uniqueness one)

Author: I think it is correct, but parenthesized is probably better.

Composite key constraints are created with the following commands:

* Node key constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name
FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE (n.propertyName_1, ..., n.propertyName_n)  NODE KEY`.
* Relationship key constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name

> FOR ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-() REQUIRE (r.propertyName_1, ..., r.propertyName_n) IS RELATIONSHIP KEY`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Node key constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE (n.propertyName_1, ..., n.propertyName_n) IS NODE KEY`.
* Relationship key constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-() REQUIRE (r.propertyName_1, ..., r.propertyName_n) IS RELATIONSHIP KEY`.
```
missing `IS` for node key and why the linebreaks?

For the full command syntax to create a key constraint, see xref:constraints/syntax.adoc#create-key-constraints[Syntax -> Create key constraints].

.Create a composite node key constraint on multiple properties
======

.Create a constraint requiring `Actor` nodes to have a unique combination of `firstname` and `surname` properties as a node key
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT actor_fullname
FOR (actor:Actor) REQUIRE (actor.firstname, actor.surname) IS NODE KEY
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

> .Create a composite relationship key constraint label on multiple properties :new[Introduced in 5.7]

Reviewer: this label don't render properly
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/53484f1e-8eaf-4517-8921-26319adea2c7)

======

A relationship key constraint ensures that certain relationships have a set of defined properties whose combined value is unique.
It also ensures that all properties in the set are present.

.Create a constraint requiring `KNOWS` relationships to have a unique combination of `since` and `how` properties as a relationship key
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT knows_since_how
FOR ()-[knows:KNOWS]-() REQUIRE (knows.since, knows.how) IS RELATIONSHIP KEY
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

[[create-key-constraint-compliant-data]]
==== Create data that complies with existing key constraints

.Creating a node that complies with existing node key constraints
======

> .Create an `Actor` node with `firstname` and `surname` properties

Reviewer: should these do like the uniqueness version and mention the property values instead of the keys and that it's not already in the graph?

[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT $name
FOR (book:Book) REQUIRE book.prop1 IS UNIQUE
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

.Create a relationship property existence constraint using a parameter
======

.Parameters
[source, parameters]
----
{
  "name": "rel_exist_param"
}
----

.Create a relationship property existence constraint with a parameterized name
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT $name
FOR ()-[wrote:WROTE]-() REQUIRE wrote.published IS NOT NULL
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

[[multiple-constrains]]
=== Multiple constraints on the same property combinations

Some constraint types are allowed on the same label/relationship type and property combination.
For example, it is possible to have a uniqueness and an existence constraint on the same label/relationship type and property combination, though this would be the equivalent of having a node or relationship key constraint.
A more useful example would be to combine a property type and an existence constraint to ensure that the property exists and has the given type.

[[constraints-and-indexes]]

> === Constraints and backing indexes

Reviewer: for all of these common sections, do we want labels on when different things were introduced or do we leave that to just the relevant parts above? (such as the examples on relationship property uniqueness and key constraints)

Reviewer: I think we decided we didn't need it in general, but just in the relevant create sections where they first appear?

Reviewer: Decision: only needed when introduced

This means that creating a property uniqueness or key constraint will create a range index with the same name, node label/relationship type and property combination as its owning constraint.
Single property constraints will create single property indexes and multiple property composite constraints will create xref:indexes/search-performance-indexes/using-indexes.adoc#composite-indexes[composite indexes].

[NOTE]
Indexes of the same index type, label/relationship type, and property combination cannot be added separately.
However, dropping a property uniqueness or key constraint will also drop its backing index.
If the backing index is still required, the index needs to be explicitly re-created.

Property uniqueness and key constraints require an index because it allows the system to quickly check if a node with the same label and property value or a relationship with the same type and property value already exists.
Without an index, the system would need to scan all nodes with the same label, which would be slow and inefficient, especially as the graph grows.
The index makes these checks much faster by enabling direct lookups instead of scanning the entire graph.

> For more information about how indexes impact query performance, see xref:indexes/search-performance-indexes/using-indexes.adoc[].

Reviewer: do we also want to still explicitly mention that they can be used like a regular index and not just for the constraint? or is this implicitly covered?
The previous intro page had:
```
Cypher will use these indexes for lookups just like other indexes.
```
(and linked to the index chapter, but I think the using indexes are a better linking point anyway)

> These indexes can be viewed in the `owningConstraint` column returned by the xref:indexes/search-performance-indexes/managing-indexes.adoc#list-indexes[`SHOW INDEX`] command, and the `ownedIndex` column returned by the xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#list-constraints[`SHOW CONSTRAINT`] command.

Reviewer: not sure if `viewed` is the correct word? those columns either lists the name of the backing index/backed constraint or is null if not index-backed/backing a constraint

| 19 | "knows_since_how"       | "RELATIONSHIP_KEY"        | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["KNOWS"]      | ["since", "how"]             | "knows_since_how"       | NULL         |
| 25 | "node_uniqueness_param" | "UNIQUENESS"              | "NODE"         | ["Book"]       | ["prop1"]                    | "node_uniqueness_param" | NULL         |
| 15 | "ownershipId"           | "RELATIONSHIP_KEY"        | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["OWNS"]       | ["ownershipId"]              | "ownershipId"           | NULL         |
| 9  | "prequels"              | "RELATIONSHIP_UNIQUENESS" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["PREQUEL_OF"] | ["order", "author"]          | "prequels"              | NULL         |
| 5  | "sequels"               | "RELATIONSHIP_UNIQUENESS" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["SEQUEL_OF"]  | ["order"]                    | "sequels"               | NULL         |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

======

.List indexes with owning constraints
======

.Query

> [source, cypher, test-exclude-cols=id]

Reviewer: not sure how the exclude-cols thing works but if it's just saying to not test the column value it might be nice to also do that for lastRead and readcount as I doubt they would be correct either

Author: We use exclude-cols because the id column repeatedly caused test failures on our end. Not sure why the lastRead and readCount do not fail - maybe the test was built with those in mind. Will check. Regardless, it is not currently necessary.

| 14 | "ownershipId"           | "ONLINE" | 100.0             | "RANGE" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["OWNS"]       | ["ownershipId"]              | "range-1.0"   | "ownershipId"           | NULL                     | 0         |
| 8  | "prequels"              | "ONLINE" | 100.0             | "RANGE" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["PREQUEL_OF"] | ["order", "author"]          | "range-1.0"   | "prequels"              | NULL                     | 0         |
| 4  | "sequels"               | "ONLINE" | 100.0             | "RANGE" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["SEQUEL_OF"]  | ["order"]                    | "range-1.0"   | "sequels"               | 2024-09-19T09:22:15.563Z | 1         |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

======

[NOTE]
Property existence and property type constraints are not backed by indexes.

[[create-constraint-with-index-provider]]
==== Creating constraints with an index provider

> Because property uniqueness and key constraints have backing indexes, an index provider can be provided when creating these constraints using the `OPTIONS` clause and the `indexProvider` option,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because property uniqueness and key constraints have backing indexes, an index provider can be provided when creating these constraints using the `OPTIONS` clause and the `indexProvider` option.
```

The only valid value for the index provider is:

* `range-1.0` label:default[]

> .Create a node property key constraint with a specified index provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Create a node key constraint with a specified index provider
```

[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_with_provider
FOR (actor:Actor) REQUIRE actor.surname IS NODE KEY
OPTIONS {
  indexProvider: 'range-1.0'
}
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

.Create a relationship property uniqueness constraint with a specified index provider
======

.Create a constraint requiring `SEQUEL_OF` relationships to have a unique combination of `order`, `seriesTitle`, and `number` properties, specifying `range-1.0` as index provider
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT rel_constraint_with_options
FOR ()-[sequel:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE (sequel.order, sequel.seriesTitle, sequel.number) IS UNIQUE
OPTIONS {
  indexProvider: 'range-1.0'
}
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

There are no valid index configuration values for the constraint-backing range indexes.

[[create-a-constraint-if-not-exist]]
=== Handling existing constraints when creating a constraint

Creating an already existing constraint will fail.
To avoid such an error, `IF NOT EXISTS` can be added to the `CREATE` command.

> This will ensure that no error is thrown and that no constraint is created if any other constraint with the given name, or another node property uniqueness constraint on the same schema, already exists.

Reviewer: I can see which section you copied this from XD
```suggestion
This will ensure that no error is thrown and that no constraint is created if any other constraint with the given name, or another constraint on the same constraint type and schema, or both, already exists.
For property type constraints the property type also needs to be the same.
```
Also don't know if we need to specify that it is either both on nodes or both on relationships or if that is implied by schema? Maybe its even better to just update to say something along the lines of
```suggestion
This will ensure that no error is thrown and that no constraint is created if any other constraint with the given name, or another constraint on the same constraint type, label/relationship type, properties and, for property type constraints, property type, or both, already exists.
```
(there might be too many commas here XD)

Author: I think your first suggestion works better.

As of Neo4j 5.17, an informational notification is instead returned showing the existing constraint which blocks the creation.

> .Create a relationship property uniqueness constraint when a constraint with the same name exists

Reviewer: so what this is showing is an identical constraint already existing, which is fine but not the most interesting case, what might be nicer is to have 2 examples: one where we try to create a constraint on the same thing but with a different name (or keep this but update the description to say identical as that is what it's showing) and then the second one have the same name but a completely different constraint (like one is on nodes the other on relationships and they have different constraint types)

Reviewer: What we did before was that the different sections for this had different set-ups of what they showed so all three cases (identical, same on everything but name, completely different but same name) were covered somewhere but not all every time (they also sometimes just covered when there wasn't a constraint as well and the new one got created)

Reviewer: additionally, since this is no longer tied to the specific section it might be nice to just show what constraint pre-exists, then have the query trying to create the new one and the result and notification we get back

(or do we thing having the notification is enough so we don't need to show what we're conflicting with beforehand?)

Reviewer: Old examples of same name only: 
* https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/constraints/examples/#constraints-create-a-relationship-uniqueness-constraints-if-not-exist (however they are both relationship uniqueness constraints on the same relationship type, though one is on a single property and one on multiple properties)
* https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/constraints/examples/#constraints-create-a-node-property-existence-constraint-if-not-exist (however they are both on the same node label/property combination, though different constraint types)

Might be nicer to go even further for the same name case and have something along the lines of:
```
pre-existing constraint:
CREATE CONSTRAINT myConstraint FOR ()-[sequel:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE (sequel.order) IS UNIQUE

attempt to create constraint:
CREATE CONSTRAINT myConstraint IF NOT EXISTS FOR (author:Author) REQUIRE author.pseudonym IS NOT NULL

and then the notification would be:
`CREATE CONSTRAINT myConstraint IF NOT EXISTS FOR (e:Author) REQUIRE (e.pseudonym) IS NOT NULL` has no effect.
`CONSTRAINT myConstraint FOR ()-[sequel:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE (sequel.order) IS UNIQUE` already exists.
```

======

.Create a constraint requiring all `SEQUEL_OF` relationships to have unique `order` properties
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT sequels IF NOT EXISTS
FOR ()-[sequel:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE sequel.order IS UNIQUE
----

Because the same constraint already exists, nothing will happen:

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
(no changes, no records)
----

.Notification
[source]
----
`CREATE CONSTRAINT sequels IF NOT EXISTS FOR ()-[e:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE (e.order) IS UNIQUE` has no effect.
`CONSTRAINT sequels FOR ()-[e:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE (e.order, e.seriesTitle) IS UNIQUE` already exists.
----

======

[[constraint-creation-failures-and-data-violations]]
=== Constraint creation failures and data violation scenarios

* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-an-already-existing-constraint[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-data-that-violates-a-constraint[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#fail-to-create-constraint-due-to-existing-data[]

> * xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#removing-an-existing-constrained-property-will-fail[]

Reviewer: would it make sense to first have all the add/change data so it violates the constraint and then the add constraint when violating data exists instead of having the constraint one in the middle? (I assume this goes for the sections below as well but I saw it here in the list first)
```
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-data-that-violates-a-constraint[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#removing-an-existing-constrained-property-will-fail[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#fail-to-create-constraint-due-to-existing-data[]
```

> * xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-key-and-uniqueness-constraint-on-same-schema-as-existing-index[]

Reviewer: still from just reading this list so it might be covered but the property type constraints with different property types but same label/reltype/property combo, example title from the current docs on property type constrain examples:
```
Creating a constraint when there is an existing constraint with a different property type will fail
```

Reviewer: old example link: https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/constraints/examples/#constraints-create-a-different-than-existing-node-property-type-constraint

and it would be nice to add a sentence about it applying to all property type constraints.

> * xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-key-and-uniqueness-constraint-on-same-schema-as-existing-index[]

Reviewer: also on the topic of property type constraints, would it make sense to also have a section for trying to alter an existing property on a node/relationship to change it to the wrong type? I know this isn't covered in the current documentation, but is it something that would be nice to have or is the creating new nodes/relationships with properties of the wrong type enough?

> * xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-key-and-uniqueness-constraint-on-same-schema-as-existing-index[]

Reviewer: we don't have any examples of 
```
Key and property uniqueness constraints are not allowed on the same schema
```

Might go in under the same section as 2 property type constraints on same schema but different types, maybe as a `fail to create constraint due to a conflicting constraint existing` or something

Reviewer: fount it, it's just not added to this list :P (which has it's own comment so I'll resolve this)

[[create-an-already-existing-constraint]]

> ==== Creating an already existing constraint will fail

Reviewer: I feel like I'd want one more example under here and that is the case of same name but different constraints as well, so the only thing they have in common is the name (different constraint types, one on nodes one on relationships, different properties)

just to show all the different failing cases

Reviewer: old example link: https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/constraints/examples/#constraints-create-an-already-existing-relationship-property-existence-constraint

however, it does have a very similar constraint as the conflicting one but we don't show the conflicting constraint, only the error message, so that does not really matter I guess. If we want to show the constraint we're actually conflicting with then I'd say it might be nice to update it to a constraint that is less similar.

> Creating a constraint on a node label or relationship property that is already constrained will fail.

Reviewer: this sentence feels like it's missing some words?
```suggestion
Creating a constraint on the same label or relationship type and properties that is already constrained will fail.
```

Reviewer: might also be nice to add something about the property type being the same for the property type constraint case

This applies to all constraint types.

.Create an already existing node property uniqueness constraint
======

////
[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT preExisting_book_published FOR (book:Book) REQUIRE book.published IS UNIQUE
----
////

.Create a constraint requiring `Book` nodes to have unique `published` properties, when that constraint already exists
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT book_published FOR (book:Book) REQUIRE book.published IS UNIQUE
----

> In this case, the constraint cannot be created because it already exists.

Reviewer: you point out in the relationship case that they have different names but you don't point it out here even if it's true here as well that they have different names

Reviewer: might be nice to switch this example to be identical instead to show both versions (same but different name as well as identical)

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Constraint already exists:
Constraint( id=4, name='preExisting_book_published', type='UNIQUENESS', schema=(:Book {published}), ownedIndex=3 )
----

[NOTE]
====
The constraint type will be updated to say `NODE PROPERTY UNIQUENESS` in Neo4j 6.0.
====

======

.Create an already existing relationship property type constraint
======

.Create a constraint requiring `order` properties on `PART_OF` relationships to be of type `INTEGER`, when that constraint already exists
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT belongs_to
FOR ()-[part:PART_OF]-() REQUIRE part.order :: INTEGER
----

In this case, the constraint cannot be created because it already exists (but with a different name).

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Constraint already exists: Constraint( id=24, name='part_of', type='RELATIONSHIP PROPERTY TYPE', schema=()-[:PART_OF {order}]-(), propertyType=INTEGER )
----

======

[[create-data-that-violates-a-constraint]]
==== Creating data that violates existing constraints will fail

> This applies to all constraint types.

Reviewer: I think it might be nice to list how it applies to the different constraint types as they will all fail on different things? so it feels weird to me to only say "it applies to all" as if all examples applies to all constraint types...

Reviewer: That would especially be nice since we only show one of the ways the key constraint can force your query to fail for example

Reviewer: I have in one of my later comments a suggestion for making it a table to show what things affect each constraint type, that would probably be nice here as well

======

.Create an `Author` node without a `name` property, given a property existence constraint on `:Author(name)`
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE (author:Author {surname: 'Austen'})
----

In this case, the node is not created because it is missing the `name` property which is in conflict with an existing constraint.

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Node(0) with label `Author` must have the property `name`
----

======

.Create a relationship that violates an existing relationship property type constraint
======

.Create a `PART_OF` relationship with a `STRING` `order` property, given a property type constraint on the relationship type `PART_OF` restricting the `order` property to `INTEGER` values
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie {title:'Iron Man'}), (franchise:Franchise {name:'MCU'})
CREATE (movie)-[part:PART_OF {order: '1'}]->(franchise)
----

In this case, the relationship is not created because the `order` property is in conflict with an existing constraint.

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Relationship(0) with type `PART_OF` has property `order` of wrong type `String`. Allowed types: INTEGER
----

======

> .Create a node that violates existing node property key constraint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Create a node that violates existing node key constraint
```

======

.Create an `Actor` node without a `firstname` property, given a node key constraint on `:Actor(firstname, surname)`
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE (actor:Actor {surname: 'Wood'})
----

In this case, the node is not created because it is missing the `firstname` property which is in conflict with an existing constraint.

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Node(0) with label `Actor` must have the properties (`firstname`, `surname`)
----

======

[[fail-to-create-constraint-due-to-existing-data]]
==== Creating constraints when there exists conflicting data will fail

> This applies to all constraint types.

Reviewer: same here as the section above, might be nice to actually give what data would violate depending on the constraint

maybe as a table? 🤔 
```
constraint type     | non-existing property | non-unique property/properties combination | property of wrong type
property uniqueness |                       |                      X                     |
property existence  |           X           |                                            |
property type       |                       |                                            |           X
key                 |           X           |                      X                     |
```

Reviewer: feels especially important for this section as you don't even have an example for each constraint type

.Create a node property uniqueness constraint when conflicting nodes exist
======

////
[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
CREATE (book:Book {isbn: '9780393972832', title: 'Moby Dick'});
CREATE (book:Book {isbn: '9780763630188', title: 'Moby Dick'})
----
////

> .Create a constraint requiring `Book` nodes to have unique `title` properties, when there already exists two nodes with the same `title`

Reviewer: do we need
```suggestion
.Create a constraint requiring `Book` nodes to have unique `title` properties, when there already exists two `Book` nodes with the same `title`
```

Reviewer: and similarly for the other examples below, should we specify the label/relationship types as having those properties on unrelated labels/relationship types would not block the constraint creation

[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT book_title FOR (book:Book) REQUIRE book.title IS UNIQUE
----

In this case, the constraint cannot be created because it is in conflict with the existing graph.
Either use xref:indexes/search-performance-indexes/managing-indexes.adoc[indexes] instead, or remove/correct the offending nodes and then re-apply the constraint.

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Unable to create Constraint( name='book_title', type='UNIQUENESS', schema=(:Book {title}) ):
Both Node(0) and Node(1) have the label `Book` and property `title` = 'Moby Dick'
----

The constraint creation fails on the first offending nodes that are found.
This does not guarantee that there are no other offending nodes in the graph.
Therefore, all the data should be checked and cleaned up before re-attempting the constraint creation.

.Find all offending nodes with the non-unique property values for the constraint above
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (book1:Book), (book2:Book)
WHERE book1.title = book2.title AND NOT book1 = book2
RETURN book1, book2

> ----

Reviewer: Since we only cover two of the four constraint type we are missing out on some of these helpful matches now.

Maybe add after both examples just the relevant match clauses for either all or at least the remaining constraint types as well (or if you make a table of why they fall above, add it as another column up there)

Reviewer: (especially since the key constraint one is missing and its the most complicated one as well)

Reviewer: generic versions of all matches:

node property uniqueness match:
```
MATCH (n1:Label), (n2:Label)
WHERE n1.prop = n2.prop AND NOT n1 = n2
RETURN n1, n2
```
rel property uniqueness match:
```
MATCH ()-[r1:REL_TYPE]->(), ()-[r2:REL_TYPE]->()
WHERE r1.prop = r2.prop AND NOT r1 = r2
RETURN r1, r2
```

node property existence match:
```
MATCH (n:Label)
WHERE n.prop IS NULL
RETURN n
```
rel property existence match:
```
MATCH ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-()
WHERE r.prop IS NULL
RETURN r
```

node property type match:
```
MATCH (n:Label)
WHERE n.prop IS NOT :: <TYPE>
RETURN n
```
rel property type match:
```
MATCH ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-()
WHERE r.prop IS NOT :: <TYPE>
RETURN r
```

node key match:
```
MATCH (n1:Label), (n2:Label)
WHERE n1.prop = n2.prop AND NOT n1 = n2
UNWIND [n1, n2] AS node
RETURN node, 'non-unique' AS reason
UNION
MATCH (n:Label)
WHERE n.prop IS NULL
RETURN n AS node, 'non-existing' AS reason
```
rel key match:
```
MATCH ()-[r1:REL_TYPE]->(), ()-[r2:REL_TYPE]->()
WHERE r1.prop = r2.prop AND NOT r1 = r2
UNWIND [r1, r2] AS relationship
RETURN relationship, 'non-unique' AS reason
UNION
MATCH ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-()
WHERE r.prop IS NULL
RETURN r AS relationship, 'non-existing' AS reason
```

[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT wrote_language FOR ()-[wrote:WROTE]-() REQUIRE wrote.language IS NOT NULL
----

In this case, the constraint cannot be created because it is in conflict with the existing graph.
Remove or correct the offending relationships and then re-apply the constraint.

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Unable to create Constraint( type='RELATIONSHIP PROPERTY EXISTENCE', schema=()-[:WROTE {language}]-() ):
Relationship(0) with type `WROTE` must have the property `language`. Note that only the first found violation is shown.
----

The constraint creation fails on the first offending relationship that is found.
This does not guarantee that there are no other offending relationships in the graph.
Therefore, all the data should be checked and cleaned up before re-attempting the constraint creation.

.Find all offending relationships missing the property for the constraint above
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH ()-[wrote:WROTE]-()
WHERE wrote.language IS NULL
RETURN wrote
----

======

[[removing-an-existing-constrained-property-will-fail]]

> ==== Removing existence constrained properties will fail

Reviewer: this should mention it applies to both property existence and key constraints

======

.Remove the `name` property from an existing `Author` node, given a property existence constraint on `:Author(name)`
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (author:Author {name: 'Virginia Woolf'})
REMOVE author.name
----

In this case, the property is not removed because it is in conflict with an existing constraint.

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Node(0) with label `Author` must have the property `name`
----

======

.Remove a relationship property existence-constrained property
======

////
[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT wrote_locations FOR ()-[wrote:WROTE]-() REQUIRE wrote.location IS NOT NULL
----
////

.Remove the `location` property from an existing `WROTE` relationship, given a property existence constraint `:WROTE(location)`
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (author:Author)-[wrote:WROTE]->(book:Book)
REMOVE wrote.location
----

In this case, the property is not removed because it is in conflict with an existing constraint.

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Relationship(0) with type `WROTE` must have the property `location`
----

======

[[create-key-and-uniqueness-constraint-on-same-schema-as-existing-index]]

> ==== Creating key and uniqueness constraints on the same schema as an existing index will fail

Reviewer: might be nice to mention this applies to all property uniqueness and key constraints

> .Creating a node property uniqueness constraint on the same name as an existing index

Reviewer: the section title says same schema, this example title says same name and then the example itself shows same schema...
```suggestion
.Creating a node property uniqueness constraint on the same schema as an existing index
```

======

////
[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
CREATE INDEX preExisting_book_word_count FOR (book:Book) ON (book.wordCount)
----
////

.Create a constraint requiring all `Book` nodes to have unique `wordCount` properties, when an index already exists on that label and property combination
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT book_word_count FOR (book:Book) REQUIRE book.wordCount IS UNIQUE
----

In this case, the constraint cannot be created because there already exists an index covering that schema.

.Error message
[source, error]
----
There already exists an index (:Book {wordCount}).
A constraint cannot be created until the index has been dropped.
----

======

> .Creating a relationship property key constraint on the same name as an existing index

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Creating a relationship key constraint on the same name as an existing index
```

Reviewer: this example also actually shows the same name case which is nice to have but I think the section title might need updating to not just say `same schema` since we're showing more than that

======

////
[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
CREATE INDEX knows FOR ()-[know:KNOW]-() ON (know.levels)
----
////

.Create a constraint requiring all `KNOWS` relationships to have a unique level property as a relationship key, when an index already exists with the given name
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT knows
FOR ()-[knows:KNOWS]-() REQUIRE (knows.level) IS RELATIONSHIP KEY
----

In this case, the constraint cannot be created because there already exists an index with the given name.

.Error message
[source, error]
----

> There already exists an index called 'knows'.

Reviewer: the case of index name clashing does actually apply to all constraint types and not just the index-backed, since the names need to be unique among all indexes and all constraints

----

======

[[key-and-uniqueness-constraint-on-the-same-schema]]

> ==== Key and uniqueness constraints are not allowed on the same schema

Reviewer: surprise section, this was one I was missing when looking at the list above XD I guess it needs to be added to the list above then since it obviously exists XD

> ==== Key and uniqueness constraints are not allowed on the same schema

Reviewer: might be nice to mention that this applies to all property uniqueness and key constraints

> .Creating a node key property constraint on the same schema as existing uniqueness constraint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Creating a node key constraint on the same schema as existing property uniqueness constraint
```

CREATE CONSTRAINT preExisting_actor_name_age FOR (actor:Actor) REQUIRE (actor.firstname, actor.age) IS UNIQUE
----
////

.Create a node key constraint on the properties `firstname` and `age` on nodes with the `Actor` label, when a property uniqueness constraint already exists on the same label and property combination
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT actor_name_age FOR (actor:Actor) REQUIRE (actor.firstname, actor.age) IS NODE KEY
----

In this case, the constraint cannot be created because there already exist a conflicting constraint on that label and property combination.

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Constraint already exists:
Constraint( id=10, name='preExisting_actor_name_age', type='UNIQUENESS', schema=(:Actor {firstname, age}), ownedIndex=9 )
----

======

[[list-constraints]]
== SHOW CONSTRAINTS

To list all constraints with the default output columns, use `SHOW CONSTRAINTS`.
If all columns are required, use `SHOW CONSTRAINTS YIELD *`.
For the full command syntax to list constraints, see xref:constraints/syntax.adoc#list-constraints[Syntax -> SHOW CONSTRAINTS].

One of the output columns from `SHOW CONSTRAINTS` is the name of the constraint.

> This can be used to drop the constraint with the xref::constraints/syntax.adoc#constraints-syntax-drop[`DROP CONSTRAINT` command].

Reviewer: this link seems to not resolve any longer, it goes to top of syntax page and not the drop constraint part (though one could argue that it should go to the drop section on this page instead of the syntax page now)

| 26 | "rel_exist_param"             | "RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["WROTE"]      | ["published"]                      | NULL                          | NULL                             |
| 5  | "sequels"                     | "RELATIONSHIP_UNIQUENESS"         | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["SEQUEL_OF"]  | ["order"]                          | "sequels"                     | NULL                             |
| 33 | "wrote_locations"             | "RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["WROTE"]      | ["location"]                       | NULL                          | NULL                             |
| 11 | "wrote_year"                  | "RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["WROTE"]      | ["year"]                           | NULL                          | NULL                             |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

[NOTE]

> The `type` column returns `UNIQUENESS` for the node property uniqueness constraint and `RELATIONSHIP_UNIQUENESS` for the relationship property uniqueness constraint.

Reviewer: this note also applies to the other examples (at least those that return any property uniqueness constraints, and potentially only partially of you only return relationship ones for example), do we want it in more places than just the first one?

Author: I think once is sufficient.

| 33 | "wrote_locations"             | "RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["WROTE"]      | ["location"]                       | NULL                          | NULL                             |
| 11 | "wrote_year"                  | "RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["WROTE"]      | ["year"]                           | NULL                          | NULL                             |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

======

[[list-constraints-result-columns]]
=== Result columns for listing constraints

.Listing constraints output
[options="header", width="100%", cols="4m,6a,2m"]
|===
| Column | Description | Type

| id
| The id of the constraint. label:default-output[]
| INTEGER

| name
| Name of the constraint (explicitly set by the user or automatically assigned). label:default-output[]
| STRING

| type

> | The ConstraintType of this constraint (`UNIQUENESS` (node uniqueness), `RELATIONSHIP_UNIQUENESS`, `NODE_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE`, `RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE`, `NODE_PROPERTY_TYPE`, `RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_TYPE`, `NODE_KEY`, or `RELATIONSHIP_KEY`). label:default-output[]

Reviewer: might be nice to add the note about the type updates here as well? since we're listing all the constraint types

| STRING

| entityType

> | Type of entities this constraint represents (nodes or relationship). label:default-output[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Type of entities this constraint represents (nodes or relationships). label:default-output[]
```
or 
```suggestion
| Type of entities this constraint represents (node or relationship). label:default-output[]
```
or
```suggestion
| Type of entities this constraint represents (`NODE` or `RELATIONSHIP`). label:default-output[]
```

| STRING

| labelsOrTypes

> | The labels or relationship types of this constraint. label:default-output[]

Reviewer: I'm pretty sure this was like this already before, but do we want to add something about these always being a single value (but the column returning a list due to consistency with the show index version where it sometimes can be multiples (fulltext only))?

| STRING

| propertyType
| The property type the property is restricted to for property type constraints, or `null` for the other constraints.
label:default-output[] label:new[Introduced in 5.9]
| STRING

| options
| The options passed to `CREATE` command, for the index associated to the constraint, or `null` if no index is associated with the constraint.
| MAP

| createStatement
| Statement used to create the constraint.
| STRING

|===

[[drop-constraint]]
== DROP CONSTRAINT

Constraints are dropped using the `DROP CONSTRAINT` command.
For the full command syntax to drop constraints, see xref:constraints/syntax.adoc#drop-constraint[Syntax -> DROP CONSTRAINT].

[NOTE]
Dropping a constraint requires the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/{page-version}/authentication-authorization/database-administration/#access-control-database-administration-constraints[`DROP CONSTRAINT` privilege].

.Drop a constraint by name
======

A constraint can be dropped using the name with the `DROP CONSTRAINT constraint_name` command.
It is the same command for all constraint types.

> The name of the constraint can be found using the xref::constraints/syntax.adoc#constraints-syntax-list[`SHOW CONSTRAINTS` command], given in the output column `name`.

Reviewer: this link no longer resolves, just goes to top of syntax page. Also it might be better to just link to the show constraints section on this page instead of the syntax one.

.Drop the constraint `book_isbn`
[source, cypher]
----
DROP CONSTRAINT book_isbn
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Removed 1 constraint.
----

======

.Drop a constraint using a parameter label:new[Introduced in 5.16]
======

The constraint name can also be given as a parameter.

.Parameters
[source, parameters]
----
{
  "name": "actor_fullname"
}
----

.Drop a constraint with a parameterized name
[source, cypher]
----
DROP CONSTRAINT $name
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Removed 1 constraint.
----

======

> .Drop a non-existing constraint

Reviewer: do we want an example for dropping a non-existing constraint without IF EXISTS to show the error like we do for creating already existing constraints?

Reviewer: I know this doesn't exist in the current docs

Author: I think that might be superfluous.

======

> If it is uncertain if any constraint with a given name exists and you want to drop it if it does but not get an error should it not, use `IF EXISTS`.

Reviewer: this text does not say a notification gets returned like the create counterpart does, might be nice if it did (and when that was added, same time as the create one)

* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-property-existence-constraints[Property existence constraints] label:enterprise-edition[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-property-type-constraints[Property type constraints] label:enterprise-edition[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-key-constraints[Key constraints] label:enterprise-edition[]

[[create-constraint]]
== CREATE CONSTRAINT

Constraints are created with the `CREATE CONSTRAINT` command.
When creating a constraint, it is recommended to provide a constraint name.
This name must be unique among both indexes and constraints.
If a name is not explicitly given, a unique name will be auto-generated.

[NOTE]
Creating a constraint requires the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/{page-version}/authentication-authorization/database-administration/#access-control-database-administration-constraints[`CREATE CONSTRAINT` privilege].

[NOTE]
Adding constraints is an atomic operation that can take a while -- all existing data has to be scanned before a Neo4j DBMS can use a constraint.

[[create-property-uniqueness-constraints]]
=== Create property uniqueness constraints

> Property uniqueness constraints ensure that the property values are unique for all nodes with a specific label or all relationships with a specific type.
> For composite property uniqueness constraints on multiple properties, it is the combination of property values that must be unique.
> Property uniqueness constraints do not require all nodes or relationships to have values for the properties listed in the constraint.
> Only nodes or relationships that contain all properties specified in the constraint are subject to the uniqueness rule.
> Nodes or relationships missing one or more of the specified properties are not subject to this rule.
> Queries that try to add duplicated property values will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Property uniqueness constraints ensure that the property values are unique for all nodes with a specific label or all relationships with a specific type.
For composite property uniqueness constraints on multiple properties, it is the combination of property values that must be unique.
Queries that try to add duplicated property values will fail.

Property uniqueness constraints do not require all nodes or relationships to have values for the properties listed in the constraint.
Only nodes or relationships that contain all properties specified in the constraint are subject to the uniqueness rule.
Nodes or relationships missing one or more of the specified properties are not subject to this rule.
```
Maybe? It felt like a big block of text to read, and when I split it it felt like the last sentence belonged more with the first part than the section .

.Create a composite node property uniqueness constraint on several properties
======

.Create a constraint requiring `Book` nodes to have unique combinations of `title` and `publicationYear` properties
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT book_title_year
FOR (book:Book) REQUIRE (book.title, book.publicationYear) IS UNIQUE
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

.Create a composite relationship property uniqueness constraint on several properties label:new[Introduced in 5.7]
======

.Create a constraint requiring `PREQUEL_OF` relationships to have unique combinations of `order` and `author` properties
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT prequels
FOR ()-[prequel:PREQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE (prequel.order, prequel.author) IS UNIQUE
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

[[create-property-uniqueness-constraint-compliant-data]]
==== Create data that complies with existing property uniqueness constraints

.Create a node that complies with existing property uniqueness constraints
======

> .Create a `Book` node with an `isbn` property that is not already in the database

Reviewer: why the switch from graph to database?

.Create a node property existence constraint
======

.Create a constraint requiring `Author` nodes to have a `name` property
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT author_name
FOR (author:Author) REQUIRE author.name IS NOT NULL
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

.Create a relationship property existence constraint
======

.Create a constraint requiring `WROTE` relationships to have a `year` property
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT wrote_year
FOR ()-[wrote:WROTE]-() REQUIRE wrote.year IS NOT NULL
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

[[create-property-existence-constraint-compliant-data]]
==== Create data that complies with existing property existence constraints

.Create a node that complies with existing node property existence constraints
======

.Create an `Author` node with a `name` property:
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE (author:Author {name:'Virginia Woolf', surname: 'Woolf'})
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 label, created 1 node, set 2 properties
----

======

.Create a relationship that complies with existing relationship property existence constraints
======

> .Create a `WROTE` relationship with a `year` location

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Create a `WROTE` relationship with a `year` property
```

[source, cypher]
----
CREATE (author:Author {name: 'Emily Brontë', surname: 'Brontë'})-[wrote:WROTE {year: 1847, location: 'Haworth, United Kingdom', published: true}]->(book:Book {title:'Wuthering Heights', isbn: 9789186579296})
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 2 labels, created 2 nodes, set 7 properties, created 1 relationship
----

======

[role=label--enterprise-edition label--new-5.9]
[[create-property-type-constraints]]
=== Create property type constraints

> Property type constraints ensure that a property has the required data type for all nodes with a specific label or for all relationships with a specific type.
> Queries that attempt to add this property with the wrong data type or modify this property in a way that changes its data type for nodes of the specified label or relationships of the specified type will fail.
> Property type constraints do not require all nodes or relationships to have the property.
> Nodes or relationships without the constrained property are not subject to this rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Property type constraints ensure that a property has the required data type for all nodes with a specific label or for all relationships with a specific type.
Queries that attempt to add this property with the wrong data type or modify this property in a way that changes its data type for nodes of the specified label or relationships of the specified type will fail.

Property type constraints do not require all nodes or relationships to have the property.
Nodes or relationships without the constrained property are not subject to this rule.
```
Also splitting this paragraph in two to make it not as big to read

* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-single-property-type-constraint[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-property-type-constraint-union-type[]

> * xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#type-constraints-allowed-properties[]

Reviewer: Before we also had examples of trying to create property type constraints on invalid types, might still be nice to have
* https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/constraints/examples/#constraints-create-node-property-type-constraints-on-invalid-types
* https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/constraints/examples/#constraints-create-relationship-property-type-constraints-on-invalid-types

For a complete reference describing all types available in Cypher, see the section on xref::values-and-types/property-structural-constructed.adoc#types-synonyms[types and their synonyms].

[[create-property-type-constraint-compliant-data]]
==== Create data that complies with existing property type constraints

.Create a node that complies with existing node property type constraint
======

.Create an `Movie` node with a `STRING` `title` property
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE (movie:Movie {title:'Iron Man'})
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 label, created 1 node, set 1 properties
----

======

.Create a relationship that complies with existing relationship property type constraint
======

.Create a `PART_OF` relationship with an `INTEGER` `order` property
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (movie:Movie {title:'Iron Man'})
CREATE (movie)-[part:PART_OF {order: 3}]->(franchise:Franchise {name:'MCU'})
----

.Result
[queryresult]
----
Added 1 label, added 1 node, created 1 relationship, set 2 properties
----

======

[role=label--enterprise-edition]
[[create-key-constraints]]
=== Create key constraints

> Key constraints ensure that all properties exist and that the combined property values are unique for all nodes with a specific label or all relationships with a specific type.
> For composite property uniqueness constraints on multiple properties, it is the combination of property values that must be unique.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Key constraints ensure that all properties exist and that the property value (for single property constraints) or combination of property values (for composite constraints) are unique for all nodes with a specific label or all relationships with a specific type.
```
Realized that the first sentence also said `combined`, so might be better to combine them.
Or
```suggestion
Key constraints ensure that the property exist and the property value is unique for all nodes with a specific label or all relationships with a specific type.
For composite key constraints on multiple properties, all properties must exists and the combination of property values must be unique.
```
if we still want it as two sentences maybe?

> Queries that try to create new nodes of the specified label, or relationships of the specified type, without the constrained property will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Queries that try to create new nodes of the specified label, or relationships of the specified type, without the constrained property will fail.
```
to split the paragraph in two, so it's not that big

----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 2 labels, created 2 nodes, set 7 properties, created 1 relationship.
----

======

[role=label--new-5.16]
[[create-constraint-with-parameter]]
=== Create a constraint with a parameter

All constraint types can be created with a parameterized name.

.Create a node property uniqueness constraint using a parameter
======

.Parameters
[source, parameters]
----
{
  "name": "node_uniqueness_param"
}
----

.Create a node property uniqueness constraint with a parameterized name
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT $name
FOR (book:Book) REQUIRE book.prop1 IS UNIQUE
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

.Create a relationship property existence constraint using a parameter
======

.Parameters
[source, parameters]
----
{
  "name": "rel_exist_param"
}
----

.Create a relationship property existence constraint with a parameterized name
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT $name
FOR ()-[wrote:WROTE]-() REQUIRE wrote.published IS NOT NULL
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
Added 1 constraint.
----

======

[[multiple-constraints-on-same-property-combinations]]

> === Multiple constraints on the same property combinations

Reviewer: it feels a bit odd to have this, and then a bit later the `Handling existing constraints when creating a constraint` and then later again the `Creating an already existing constraint will fail`. It feels like all of these bits are related to each other and are now very split apart 🤔 

It might also be nice in this info section to mention which constraints can't exist on the same property combinations, like key and uniqueness or differing property type ones. Instead of just listing 'happy' examples

Reviewer: If we move up and collect all sections about multiple constraints here, maybe it should be renamed to just `Multiple constraints` to cover not just the same property combinations 🤷

Reviewer: fixed in my last commit

Some constraint types are allowed on the same label/relationship type and property combination.
For example, it is possible to have a uniqueness and an existence constraint on the same label/relationship type and property combination, though this would be the equivalent of having a node or relationship key constraint.
A more useful example would be to combine a property type and an existence constraint to ensure that the property exists and has the given type.

[[constraints-and-indexes]]

> === Constraints and backing indexes

Reviewer: would it make sense to also have the `Constraint failures and indexes` section under the index section? 🤔  to have all 'index related' things together?

| 18 | "ownershipId"           | "ONLINE" | 100.0             | "RANGE" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["OWNS"]       | ["ownershipId"]              | "range-1.0"   | "ownershipId"           | NULL                     | 0         |
| 8  | "prequels"              | "ONLINE" | 100.0             | "RANGE" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["PREQUEL_OF"] | ["order", "author"]          | "range-1.0"   | "prequels"              | NULL                     | 0         |
| 4  | "sequels"               | "ONLINE" | 100.0             | "RANGE" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["SEQUEL_OF"]  | ["order"]                    | "range-1.0"   | "sequels"               | 2024-10-07T11:57:12.999Z | 1         |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

======

[NOTE]
Property existence and property type constraints are not backed by indexes.

[[create-constraint-with-index-provider]]

> ==== Creating constraints with an index provider

Reviewer: do we want a list of sub-sections of the index section like we have for the other sections? (since this isn't otherwise visible unless you scroll)

might even be more reasonable if we also move up the failure section, and then maybe add a section header for the info above (something like `Constraints and backing indexes` and rename the outer section `Constraints and indexes` maybe?)

[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT sequels IF NOT EXISTS
FOR ()-[sequel:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE sequel.order IS UNIQUE
----

Because the same constraint already exists, nothing will happen:

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
(no changes, no records)
----

.Notification
[source]
----
`CREATE CONSTRAINT sequels IF NOT EXISTS FOR ()-[e:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE (e.order) IS UNIQUE` has no effect.
`CONSTRAINT sequels FOR ()-[e:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE (e.order) IS UNIQUE` already exists.
----

======

.Create a relationship property uniqueness constraint when the same constraint with a different name already exists
======

.Create a constraint requiring all `SEQUEL_OF` relationships to have unique `order` properties
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT new_sequels IF NOT EXISTS
FOR ()-[sequel:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE sequel.order IS UNIQUE
----

Because a constraint with a different name (`sequels`) on the same schema exists, nothing will happen:

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
(no changes, no records)
----

.Notification
[source]
----
`CREATE CONSTRAINT sequels IF NOT EXISTS FOR ()-[e:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE (e.order) IS UNIQUE` has no effect.

> `CONSTRAINT sequels FOR ()-[e:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE (e.order) IS UNIQUE` already exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CREATE CONSTRAINT new_sequels IF NOT EXISTS FOR ()-[e:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE (e.order) IS UNIQUE` has no effect.
`CONSTRAINT sequels FOR ()-[e:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE (e.order) IS UNIQUE` already exists.
```

`CONSTRAINT author_name FOR (e:Author) REQUIRE (e.name) IS NOT NULL` already exists.
----

======

[[constraints-and-data-violation-scenarios]]
=== Constraints and data violation scenarios

* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-data-that-violates-a-constraint[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#removing-an-existing-constrained-property-will-fail[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#modifying-property-constrained-property-will-fail[]

[[create-data-that-violates-a-constraint]]
==== Creating data that violates existing constraints will fail

.Existing constraints preventing data creation
[cols="4", options="header"]
|===
| Constraint type
| Create nodes and relationships without an existence constrained property
| Create nodes and relationships with non-unique properties/property combinations
| Create nodes and relationships with the wrong property type

| *Property uniqueness constraint*
|
^| &#x274C;
| 

| *Property existence constraint*
^| &#x274C;
|
|

| *Property type constraint*
|
|
^| &#x274C;

| *Key constraint*
^| &#x274C;
^| &#x274C;
|

|===

.Create a node that violates a node property uniqueness constraint
======

> .Create a `Book` node with an `isbn` that is already used in the graph

Reviewer: here you still say `in the graph` so since you changed some places to be `in the database` I think we're now inconsistent (where we before only said graph)

Node(0) with label `Author` must have the property `name`
----

======

.Remove a node key constrained property
======

.Remove the `firstname` property from an existing node `Actor`, given a node key constraint on `:Actor(firstname, surname)`
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (actor:Actor {firstname: 'Keanu', surname: 'Reeves'})
REMOVE actor.firstname
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Node(0) with label `Actor` must have the properties (`firstname`, `surname`)
----

======

[[modifying-property-constrained-property-will-fail]]
==== Modifying type constrained properties will fail

.Modify a type constrained property
======

.Modify the `title` for the `Movie` 'Iron Man' to an `INTEGER` value, given a constraint requiring `title` properties to be of type `STRING`
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (m:Movie {title: 'Iron Man'})
SET m.title = 13
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Node(9) with label `Movie` required the property `title` to be of type `STRING`, but was of type `INTEGER`.
----

======

[[constraint-creation-failures]]
=== Constraint creation failures

* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-an-already-existing-constraint[]

> * xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#fail-to-create-constraint-due-to-existing-data[]

Reviewer: I've now added comments to move both other sections out from here, if this is the only one left then maybe it should move in under the section about failing data instead of having it's own here (I assume you don't have more hidden sections :p)

Reviewer: fixed in my last commit

Creating a constraint on the same label or relationship type and properties that are already constrained will fail.

.Create a constraint identical to a constraint already in the database
======

.Create a constraint requiring all `SEQUEL_OF` relationships to have unique `order` properties, given an identical constraint already exists
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT sequels
FOR ()-[sequel:SEQUEL_OF]-() REQUIRE sequel.order IS UNIQUE
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
An equivalent constraint already exists, 'Constraint( id=5, name='sequels', type='RELATIONSHIP UNIQUENESS', schema=()-[:SEQUEL_OF {order}]-(), ownedIndex=4 )'.
----

[NOTE]
The constraint type will be updated to say `RELATIONSHIP PROPERTY UNIQUENESS` in a future version of Neo4j.

======

.Create a constraint with a different name but on the same schema as a constraint already in the database.
======

.Create a constraint requiring all `SEQUEL_OF` relationships to have unique `order` properties, given that a constraint on that schema already exists
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT new_book_isbn
FOR (book:Book) REQUIRE book.isbn IS UNIQUE

> ----

Reviewer: the example title and query don't match
```suggestion
.Create a constraint requiring all `Book` nodes to have unique `isbn` properties, given that a constraint on that schema already exists
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT new_book_isbn
FOR (book:Book) REQUIRE book.isbn IS UNIQUE
----
```

----

The constraint creation fails on the first offending relationship that is found.
This does not guarantee that there are no other offending relationships in the graph.
Therefore, all the data should be checked and cleaned up before re-attempting the constraint creation.

.Find all offending relationships missing the property for the constraint above
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH ()-[wrote:WROTE]-()
WHERE wrote.language IS NULL
RETURN wrote
----

======

.Generic `MATCH` queries to find the properties preventing the creation of particular constraints:
[options="header", cols="1,1m"]
|===
| Constraint
| Query

| Node property uniqueness constraint
a| 
[source]
----
MATCH (n1:Label), (n2:Label)
WHERE n1.prop = n2.prop AND NOT n1 = n2
RETURN n1, n2
----

| Relationship property uniqueness constraint
a| 
[source]
----
MATCH ()-[r1:REL_TYPE]->(), ()-[r2:REL_TYPE]->()
WHERE r1.prop = r2.prop AND NOT r1 = r2
RETURN r1, r2
----

| Node property existence constraint
a| 
[source]
----
MATCH (n:Label)
WHERE n.prop IS NULL
RETURN n
----

| Relationship property existence constraint
a| 
[source]
----
MATCH ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-()
WHERE r.prop IS NULL

> RETURN r

Reviewer: I know the current one and my suggestion didn't have direction for existence (and type (uniqueness had)) but that does mean it returns the same relationship twice so let's add direction to avoid that
```suggestion
MATCH ()-[r:REL_TYPE]->()
WHERE r.prop IS NULL
RETURN r
```

----

| Node property type constraint
a| 
[source]
----
MATCH (n:Label)
WHERE n.prop IS NOT :: <TYPE>
RETURN n
----

| Node property type constraint
a| 
[source]
----
MATCH ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-()
WHERE r.prop IS NOT :: <TYPE>
RETURN r

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Relationship property type constraint
a| 
[source]
----
MATCH ()-[r:REL_TYPE]->()
WHERE r.prop IS NOT :: <TYPE>
RETURN r
----
```

Reviewer: Only half of this was addressed, the `>` was missed

Reviewer: I updated this in one commit of the two I pushed

| Node key constraint
a| 
[source]
----
MATCH (n1:Label), (n2:Label)
WHERE n1.prop = n2.prop AND NOT n1 = n2
UNWIND [n1, n2] AS node
RETURN node, 'non-unique' AS reason
UNION
MATCH (n:Label)
WHERE n.prop IS NULL
RETURN n AS node, 'non-existing' AS reason
----

| Relationship key constraint
a| 
[source]
----
MATCH ()-[r1:REL_TYPE]->(), ()-[r2:REL_TYPE]->()
WHERE r1.prop = r2.prop AND NOT r1 = r2
UNWIND [r1, r2] AS relationship
RETURN relationship, 'non-unique' AS reason
UNION
MATCH ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-()
WHERE r.prop IS NULL

> RETURN r AS relationship, 'non-existing' AS reason

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MATCH ()-[r1:REL_TYPE]->(), ()-[r2:REL_TYPE]->()
WHERE r1.prop = r2.prop AND NOT r1 = r2
UNWIND [r1, r2] AS relationship
RETURN relationship, 'non-unique' AS reason
UNION
MATCH ()-[r:REL_TYPE]->()
WHERE r.prop IS NULL
RETURN r AS relationship, 'non-existing' AS reason
```

======

[[key-and-uniqueness-constraint-on-the-same-schema]]
==== Creating key and property uniqueness constraints on the same schema is not allowed

.Creating a node key constraint on the same schema as an existing property uniqueness constraint
======

.Create a node key constraint on the properties `title` and `publicationYear` on nodes with the `Book` label, when a property uniqueness constraint already exists on the same label and property combination
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT book_titles FOR (book:Book) REQUIRE (book.title, book.publicationYear) IS NODE KEY
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Constraint already exists: Constraint( id=7, name='book_title_year', type='UNIQUENESS', schema=(:Book {title, publicationYear}), ownedIndex=6 )
----

======

[[list-constraints]]
== SHOW CONSTRAINTS

To list all constraints with the default output columns, use `SHOW CONSTRAINTS`.
If all columns are required, use `SHOW CONSTRAINTS YIELD *`.
For the full command syntax to list constraints, see xref:constraints/syntax.adoc#list-constraints[Syntax -> SHOW CONSTRAINTS].

One of the output columns from `SHOW CONSTRAINTS` is the name of the constraint.

> This can be used to drop the constraint with the xref::constraints/syntax.adoc#drop-constraint[`DROP CONSTRAINT` command].

Reviewer: this links to te syntax section for DROP CONSTRAINT, while in the drop constraint section we link to this SHOW CONTSTRAINTS section and not the index ones, so should this link to the DROP CONSTRAINT section below instead of the syntax one to be consistent?

[NOTE]
Listing constraints requires the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/{page-version}/authentication-authorization/database-administration/#access-control-database-administration-constraints[`SHOW CONSTRAINTS` privilege].

.List all constraints with default output columns
======

.Query
[source, cypher, test-exclude-cols=id]
----
SHOW CONSTRAINTS
----

.Result
[source, queryresult]
----
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | id | name                          | type                              | entityType     | labelsOrTypes  | properties                         | ownedIndex                    | propertyType                     |

Reviewer: just for info I have not looked to ensure that the result's from the various show command examples (both here and in the index bits) are correct, I assume that the testing of the page would catch if they're wrong

| 26 | "rel_exist_param"             | "RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["WROTE"]      | ["published"]                      | NULL                          | NULL                             |
| 5  | "sequels"                     | "RELATIONSHIP_UNIQUENESS"         | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["SEQUEL_OF"]  | ["order"]                          | "sequels"                     | NULL                             |
| 11 | "wrote_year"                  | "RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["WROTE"]      | ["year"]                           | NULL                          | NULL                             |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

[NOTE]
The `type` column returns `UNIQUENESS` for the node property uniqueness constraint and `RELATIONSHIP_UNIQUENESS` for the relationship property uniqueness constraint.
This will be updated in a future version of Neo4j.

> Node property uniqueness constraints will be updated to `NODE_PROPERTY_UNIQUENESS` and relationship property uniqueness constraints to `RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_UNIQUENESS`.

Reviewer: since this note is technically applying to all (most) of the examples, would it be better to have it outside of the examples? Cause to me currently it feels like it only applies to the example it's on...

| 11 | "wrote_year"                  | "RELATIONSHIP_PROPERTY_EXISTENCE" | "RELATIONSHIP" | ["WROTE"]      | ["year"]                           | NULL                          | NULL                             | NULL                                          | "CREATE CONSTRAINT `wrote_year` FOR ()-[r:`WROTE`]-() REQUIRE (r.`year`) IS NOT NULL"                                                  |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----
======

[[list-constraints-with-filtering]]
=== Listing constraints with filtering

> The `SHOW CONSTRAINTS` command can be filtered in various ways.

Reviewer: Might be nice to add something in general to this intro about what ways we can filter. So that is not just shown using examples.

Something like:
```suggestion
The `SHOW CONSTRAINTS` command can be filtered in various ways.
Filtering of rows can be done with constraint type keyword filtering or a `WHERE` clause, filtering of columns can be done by specifying the wanted columns in the `YIELD` clause.
```
(might need better grammar :P)

| STRING

| propertyType
| The property type the property is restricted to for property type constraints, or `null` for the other constraints.
label:default-output[] label:new[Introduced in 5.9]
| STRING

| options
| The options passed to `CREATE` command, for the index associated to the constraint, or `null` if no index is associated with the constraint.
| MAP

| createStatement
| Statement used to create the constraint.
| STRING

|===

[[drop-constraint]]
== DROP CONSTRAINT

Constraints are dropped using the `DROP CONSTRAINT` command.
For the full command syntax to drop constraints, see xref:constraints/syntax.adoc#drop-constraint[Syntax -> DROP CONSTRAINT].

[NOTE]
Dropping a constraint requires the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/{page-version}/authentication-authorization/database-administration/#access-control-database-administration-constraints[`DROP CONSTRAINT` privilege].

.Drop a constraint by name
======

A constraint can be dropped using the name with the `DROP CONSTRAINT constraint_name` command.
It is the same command for all constraint types.

> The name of the constraint can be found using the xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#list-constraints[`SHOW CONSTRAINTS` command], given in the output column `name`.

Reviewer: it feels odd to me that this is part of the example, and not the general text before the example (like how it is for the show section)

Reviewer: This also applies to the examples below, previously they had their own sections and then the text was outside of the actual example. Now it's only one section and the text has moved into the examples.

And if I'm skimming through the text looking for information I generally skip over examples as I expect the information to exist in the text and not in examples (that to me should clarify/show what the text means, not introduce/be the place that holds the actual information)

Property existence constraints on single properties are created with the following commands:

> * Node property existence constraint: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE (n.property) IS NOT NULL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Node property existence constraint: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE n.property IS NOT NULL`.
```
this is what I was asking about in https://github.com/neo4j/docs-cypher/pull/1041#discussion_r1775398743

Property type constraints are created with the following commands:

* Node property type constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE n.property IS :: <TYPE>`.
* Relationship property type constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-() REQUIRE r.property IS :: <TYPE>`.

> `TYPE` refers to a specific Cypher data type, such as `STRING` or `INTEGER`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<TYPE>` refers to a specific Cypher data type, such as `STRING` or `INTEGER`.
```
maybe? since the `<>` isn't part of the syntax but just to signify it's something described elsewhere

[[create-key-constraints]]
=== Create key constraints

Key constraints ensure that all properties exist and that the combined property values are unique for all nodes with a specific label or all relationships with a specific type.

> For composite property uniqueness constraints on multiple properties, it is the combination of property values that must be unique.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For composite key constraints on multiple properties, it is the combination of property values that must be unique.
```
copy paste error (from my comment I see, but you didn't catch it so I'm not the only one to blame :P)

Single property key constraints are created with the following commands:

* Node property key constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE n.property IS NODE KEY`.

> * Relationship property key constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-() REQUIRE r.property IS RELATIONSHIP KEY`. label:new[Introduced in 5.7]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Node key constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE n.property IS NODE KEY`.
* Relationship key constraints: `CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_name FOR ()-[r:REL_TYPE]-() REQUIRE r.property IS RELATIONSHIP KEY`. label:new[Introduced in 5.7]
```
only changed half the things in the previous comment, it's not "property key" constraints

=== Handling existing constraints when creating a constraint

Creating an already existing constraint will fail.
This includes the following scenarios:

* Creating a constraint identical to an already existing constraint.

> * Creating a constraint with a different name but on the same schema as an already existing constraint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Creating a constraint with a different name but on the same constraint type and schema as an already existing constraint. For property type constraints the property type also needs to be the same.
```
if we want to cover the cases where it's considered 'the same' constraint but just with different names...

> * Creating a constraint with the same name but on a different schema as an already existing constraint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Creating a constraint with the same name as an already existing constraint, regardless of what that constraint is.
```
since it's not just the schema part (traditionally only the label/reltype and properties) that can differ. And I want to be clear that it covers literally only the name being the same.

To avoid such an error, `IF NOT EXISTS` can be added to the `CREATE` command.

> This will ensure that no error is thrown and that no constraint is created if any other constraint with the given name, or another constraint on the same constraint type and schema, or both, already exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will ensure that no error is thrown and that no constraint is created if any other constraint with the given name, or another constraint on the same constraint type and schema, or both, already exists.
For property type constraints the property type also needs to be the same.
```
to actually have the information about property types as well (was part of my previous comment as well, but missed)

======

[[modifying-property-constrained-property-will-fail]]
==== Modifying type constrained properties will fail

.Modify a type constrained property
======

.Modify the `title` for the `Movie` 'Iron Man' to an `INTEGER` value, given a constraint requiring `title` properties to be of type `STRING`
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
MATCH (m:Movie {title: 'Iron Man'})
SET m.title = 13
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Node(9) with label `Movie` required the property `title` to be of type `STRING`, but was of type `INTEGER`.
----

======

[[constraint-creation-failures]]
=== Constraint creation failures

* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#create-an-already-existing-constraint[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#fail-to-create-constraint-due-to-existing-data[]
* xref:constraints/managing-constraints.adoc#constraint-failures-and-indexes[]

[[create-an-already-existing-constraint]]
==== Creating an already existing constraint will fail

> Creating a constraint on the same label or relationship type and properties that are already constrained will fail.

Reviewer: might also be nice to mention that the constraint type should be the same? (especially since we don't have the key and property uniqueness constraints on same schema in this group)

[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT new_part_of
FOR ()-[part:PART_OF]-() REQUIRE part.order IS :: FLOAT
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
Conflicting constraint already exists: Constraint( id=21, name='part_of', type='RELATIONSHIP PROPERTY TYPE', schema=()-[:PART_OF {order}]-(), propertyType=INTEGER )
----

======

[[fail-to-create-constraint-due-to-existing-data]]
==== Creating constraints when there exists conflicting data will fail

.Existing data preventing constraint creation
[cols="4", options="header"]
|===
| Constraint type
| Non-existing property
| Non-unique property/property combination
| Property of wrong type

| *Property uniqueness constraint*
|
^| &#x274C;
| 

| *Property existence constraint*
^| &#x274C;
|
|

| *Property type constraint*
|
|
^| &#x274C;

| *Key constraint*
^| &#x274C;
^| &#x274C;
|

|===

.Create a node property uniqueness constraint when conflicting nodes exist
======

.Create two `Book` nodes with the same `name` property value
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE (:Book {isbn: '9780393972832', title: 'Moby Dick'}),
       (:Book {isbn: '9780763630188', title: 'Moby Dick'})
----

> .Create a constraint requiring `Book` nodes to have unique combinations of `title` properties, when there already exists two nodes with the same `title`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Create a constraint requiring `Book` nodes to have unique `title` properties, when there already exists two nodes with the same `title`
```
since it is just one property and not composite

[source, cypher]
----
CREATE INDEX directors FOR (director:Director) ON (director.name)
----

.Create a node property type constraint with the name `directors`
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT directors FOR (movie:Movie) REQUIRE movie.director IS :: STRING
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
There already exists an index called 'directors'.
----

======

Creating key or property uniqueness constraints on the same schema as an existing index will fail.

.Creating a node property uniqueness constraint on the same schema as an existing index
======

.Create an index for `wordCount` properties on `Book` nodes
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE INDEX book_word_count FOR (book:Book) ON (book.wordCount)
----

.Create a constraint requiring all `Book` nodes to have unique `wordCount` properties
[source, cypher, role=test-fail]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT word_count FOR (book:Book) REQUIRE book.wordCount IS UNIQUE
----

.Error message
[source, error]
----
There already exists an index (:Book {wordCount}).
A constraint cannot be created until the index has been dropped.
----

======

[[key-and-uniqueness-constraint-on-the-same-schema]]

> ==== Creating key and property uniqueness constraints on the same schema is not allowed

Reviewer: I guess it lives down here due to it being the index that makes it so they can't coexist, but this is not where I'd look for it... I would have expected it under the `Creating an already existing constraint will fail` since the different property type clashing ones are there... (or have these two in another group of `Creating a constraint conflicting with an already existing constraint will fail` as they are not really "already existing" constraint that you're trying to create)
